hey ready yep so so what is up guys
karma medic here and welcome back to
another dose I'm joined on the channel
today by Kenji back he's back he's in my
room this time in the crib and the car
medic Casa de casa de Carmen today so
today I wanted to do a little bit more
of a chill video a little bit more of a
conversational one I'm just talking
about like what is Kings second year
medical school like just give sort of
our insight how the structure of the
course works well what it is we do on a
weekly basis yeah so yeah it's just
overall general yep I'd say second year
has been super chill compared to fridge
oh yeah well that's so much more free
time so much right now it's recording us
into Tuesday yeah nothing we're setting
exam yesterday yeah I have nothing to
you today so we playing xbox all day
really good not not upset at all like
that both of us in our previous degree
chillin on a Tuesday we were both like
grinding grinding grinding yeah that
sure was a lot more like yeah like
lectures so many times a week tutorials
workshops every thank God
yeah last year medical school it was
still easier than our undergrad degree
yeah I think we both agree on that but
it was still really really powerful like
just every day almost 9:00 to 5:00 yeah
between lectures workshops and sections
tutorials whatever it was hectic and I
didn't violate by the way from my
lobster cream soup I made in University
Burnham yeah I did immunology
biotechnology and microbiology at the
University of Toronto so yeah we both
had like a very heavy life science
background yeah true start by saying I
can only do our weeks like general
general of you my thoughts about the
diagram in the cable pick up yeah so
Kenji's gonna walk us through what a
week is like for second year medical
students at Kings yep so Monday's
lectures so we only have around four or
five six lectures sometimes it's 9:00 to
5:00 it's usually on guys campus but
sometimes can be on Denmark Hill campus
yeah on st. Thomas's Hospital as well I
have a Monday's of general news lectures
yeah
Tuesday's we have hospitals or GP so for
me I have hospitals and Tuesday same
yeah Wednesday its dissection no no and
ask me Anatomy yeah but it's not every
week it tends to be like every every
other week or every three weeks even
less like we're supposed to have a bunch
of dissection we did all kind of egg
dissection except for limbs last year
yeah and so we were very excited to get
started on limbs this year but it's been
very slow we've had um what's called
surface and not to me
so we'll delve deeper into that later
but basically we haven't had this
section yet first first half the years
almost over so I'm pretty sad about that
yeah me too actually I was really for
that section is the best Thursday we're
supposed to have a scholar in projects
which are we starting in January yeah so
right now Thursday's are mostly off
which I'd say how children you know it
is yeah Fridays we have the other thing
so we have hospitals in Tuesday and then
Fridays is GP for us yeah and that the
time redoes is very so for my GP we
start at calls upon 7:00 in the morning
we should read long because it means I
have to get our bed at like 5:00 a.m.
which is good though cuz means we leave
with yadi so we got to leave them like
1:30 p.m. yeah that's very um so my GP
if you're sitting in with the GP and
talking to patients doing taking
histories then you're in at 8:00 in the
morning and if you're coming in sort of
for the workshop after the
history-taking
then we come in for 11:00 yeah and
generally we're done by like 1:32 and
then we usually leave to go to our home
visits check out my video on that
haven't seen already so yeah it really
varies varies with the GP that you have
some GPS want you there in 9 to 5 yeah
doing everything some of them just need
it for a couple hours
hmm so it's kind of a gamble really
definitely and I find them to be the
most like tiring days so hospice on GP
for me like it's a write-off right
Hospital with GP and the rest of the day
I just spend like having a nap yeah very
long enough nothing productive
yeah hard to actually do work on those
days man I wake up at 5:45 to get into
the hospital before the ATM handover and
on the wards so it really is like it
takes a lot out of me to get up there
yeah and commuting as well because some
of us so I'm in a East London come on
I'm in Greenwich for my GP which is like
yeah it's not too bad but you have taken
to count disappointing and that's an
extra hour yeah
but you need to get up early to make
sure you there on time except you're
late
that's not good yep yeah so to wrap up
GP general practice basically you go and
generally you either do like a workshop
where we go through what's been assigned
for the GP learning that week yeah and
or you sit in with patients actually
take patient histories do medical
histories and sort of practice those
skills yeah so we'll be given like a
portfolio this year well we have to so
we're given a portfolio this year where
we have to tick off some medical some
clinical skills so for example gonna
read out like what we have yeah so we
have a couple of clinical skills to do
throughout the year I mean these can be
done either in the hospital or in the GP
yeah and for example some of them
include taking nose throat and skin
swabs there's some really basic ones
like safe disposal of sharps we are also
washing your hands properly believe or
not that is a skill the doctor needs to
watch you do and second you are fine
there's advising patients on how to
collect a midstream urine specimen
instruct locations on how use inhalers
yeah seasonal things that we just get
signed off by our GP or any doctor
Hospital as I said in the mornings
usually have the workshop learning
session so for example like we had
smoking cessation yeah we had giving a
flu vaccine so they're just like topics
that we discuss in the GP with our GP
juicer
yeah and then once every four weeks for
us I don't how often is viewed but once
every four weeks for us we sit in with
our GP who's next thing so we sit side
by side with the GP in the consultation
patients and it's pretty fun because one
of the two weeks ago I actually got
together yeah yeah so you actually can
say you know interact with patients take
histories you know perform treatments
like giving flu vaccines yeah and yeah
they're really fun I learned so much you
know you get to do some really real
things as well yeah I enjoyed you is
nothing so in the hospitals we normally
go around like it was a different
different wards so we so we have like
different types of blocks
teaching blocks yeah so there's human
vitamin this year there's aging
information and supporting life and we
all start off on different blocks yeah
so I started off with a human vitamin
same as you same with some of our
friends are on the different types of
blocks
and again it varies a bit so I normally
go in for 9 a.m. in the morning to
receive the hand of Lord Ram's and then
in my hospital we go around the ward we
see all the patients 11 a.m. I think is
yes then 11 a.m. we have like an MDT
meeting and then we get to go to lunch
around half twelve yeah and then the
afternoon at 2 p.m. we have teaching
sessions so it could be anything from
venipuncture so let's take blood or yeah
that's really sick actually or it could
be just something on the topic of
learning so human development it could
be actually ok so we in the afternoons
we have topics like dementia so we learn
about dementia or something relevant to
aging okay yeah it really differs again
from the hospital you're in what Ward
you're on so me and you have both in
different hospitals
yeah and we're doing different blocks in
Kings we have three hospitals so gkt so
guys King st. thomas's but we also have
Lucian as well though yeah so any of us
can be placed in any one of these
hospitals and the teaching varies
between each Hospital yeah so for
example in our first week I my lord
we're told to take blood and you didn't
receive that no so the teaching does
vary
that's a huge point for coming into
second year of medical school each
individual students experience is going
to be so different
yeah and like even in the hospital when
I'm assigned to a ward each week I'm by
myself I'm not with any other students
so you know what I do that way it's
gonna be totally different what from one
another student does in the same board
the next week so teaching really varies
and that's kind of scary after like you
have to go out there by yourself and
like introduce yourself people and say
hey like I want to learn let me follow
you yeah let me see what you're up to
it's a very different ball game than
sitting in lectures and notes and a lot
of times you guide your learning so for
example I was in psychiatry for just one
of these actually quickly things and the
adults came ottoman was like what do you
undo today you know you can do whatever
you want so I was like actually I've
never never taken blood before from a
patient and she let me take blood from a
patient which is which is crazy so you
do direct your learning and
it's really nice being Hospital because
the last time when hospitals it was
doing our work experience yeah nothing
we couldn't like towards patient's alone
we couldn't buy vation whereas now we
actually have responsibility to do and
like this is the point where we're
actually doing real medicine like yeah
this is what we wanted to do ever since
we applied for medicine then of course
both of us didn't undergraduate degree
as well so you know we've been we've
been working towards this for a long
time yeah feels great to finally be here
so we've talked about GPS we talked
about the hospital as well yeah another
really big change for second years
introduction of progress tests so
progress has two basically tests that
test your progress really nice your
progress so in second year we have three
progresses we had one yesterday we have
one in January and have only one in May
as well and the one we had yesterday
we've only done about an eighth of the
actual content yeah
the one we set yesterday was the year
three exam and even though one year two
they gave us yeah you know the year
three examine time and we're not
expected to do amazing on the first ones
but it's supposed to show progress even
more the more you learn the more exams
you do yeah and the one we sat today and
the one in January we're not we don't
have to pass yes the one in May we do
have to pass to move on to year three
there's a huge shift in like the topic
content of the questions yeah so last
year the questions would just ask about
like some specific pathway in a
mechanism or very solving super science
for basic science similar to high school
but harder let's say whereas now this
progress test every single question was
along the lines of like a 55 year old
patient comes in presenting with this
much blood pressure this much blood
sugar these levels of potassium you know
or symptoms whatever like what's your
management plan what's the initial thing
you should do what medicine should you
prescribed by the way but it's expected
yeah so like can't you mentioned before
we have a scholarly project to do for
the first half of this year which is
sort of like a super simple assignment
learning about the methodologies of
different research and for the second
half of the year we have what's called a
student selected component so we
actually had the deadline to choose
which one we wanted about a week ago
yeah and we get an option of something
5350 yeah there's a lot of options and
these range from like the arts and
humanities to global health humanities
met a few languages as well so you can
choose a language yes this is quite a
nice area where you can just go into
what you're interested in and just have
to be medicine so it could be something
completely different community London
and I chose a pinnacle one so I chose a
surgical one actually yeah I've also
gone for something a bit clinical we're
waiting to hear back what our decision
was we got a decision earlier today but
now we've received an email saying it
might be incorrect
what happens the cool thing about is
that some of them for example are like
about making a video like your sense by
making a video yeah making a
presentation for the community yeah you
know so there's a lot more things than
just pure scientific research papers
things like that yeah which is good
because if you were like a crazy person
or in like artists or person you can you
know go into that area and do what you
enjoy
yeah it's not strictly medicine so yeah
photography as well yeah there's a lot
of stuff you can choose from that's
something you in second year as well so
like we said before about lectures it's
only on Mondays now and it's really less
lectures everything is easier in that
sense workshops we have almost none the
only things we have no surface anatomy
which is basically when one of us takes
our shirts off in a class of like 14
people make sure you're trading in the
gym for that yeah make sure you're
looking buff and ready and yeah
basically all the students get to like
we did it for the chest and abdomen so
all the students get to touch you know
you as a patient and figure out where
all the different landmarks are like
where the different internal organs and
structures are Donal examinations as
well yeah yeah so you know it's kind of
getting you used to seeing a patient
exposed and knowing where all the
internal organs are that you've learned
about when looking at a patient
obviously they're not open like they are
on the anatomy textbooks yeah and so
yeah it's a good experience to
super-helpful I think like practicing
your first year knowledge of anatomy
it's been so good just going one more
time I forgot opportunities to you know
recap all the knowledge you don't
Sebastian yeah before we wrap it up I
talked about our social life so
definitely second year there's a lot
more time to socialize I think yeah it's
gone so obviously there's guys by on
Wednesday so
if you haven't heard about guys bar
going hear about it but on Wednesdays we
have a sports night yeah so even if you
don't play sport you can just go and
have fun your friends I think if you're
a UCLA Imperial as long as your students
you can contact the Kings so yeah
Wednesday's sports night we do go to
sometimes we play ping-pong quite a lot
now we have a huge beef with ping-pong
record another video if you guys are
interested in a ping-pong championship
between me and some other people
let us know in between lectures or even
I days off let me go not chance we get
yesterday so that exam yesterday
straight off the exam like we have a
drink of a pub and then went to my
accommodation and played ping pong for
like two hours so a lot more times just
have fun go out like quite a bit more
often
I mean January Duffy will check things
projects components yeah like up until
December I think it's pretty sure yeah
but you told me watch this video back
strong passionate and excited about
medicine yeah just get through the doors
first ain't cross to is so hard getting
the doors yeah open the doors again to
medicine and you'll have a lot more time
to just enjoy yourself you know I'm
definitely catching up on you know what
I may start my third year because I'm
trying to get to med school but once
you're in med school you can kind of you
know just steer the boat you know like
on the mysterious yeah and it's not like
do-or-die anymore as long as you pass
exams you work hard you'll become a
doctor yeah you know they really want
you to pass they want to help you they
wants you succeed put you to work now
like seriously better work hard I know
it sucks there's so much to do with
applications and whatever but put in the
work it's promised all when you make it
super witness thanks so much for
watching if you like this video as you
leave a like subscribe to both of our
channels check us out on Instagram as
well for more daily updates about
medical school mm-hmm and yeah guys cool
see you in the next one today peace
you